&lt;Toshiba Information Systems (U.K.) Ltd>,
a unit of Japan's Toshiba Corp &lt;TSBA.T> said it planned to
enter the U.K. Business facsimile and key telephone market, and
forecast a turnover of 100 mln stg by 1990 for its full range
of office automation equipment.
    The announcement comes in the middle of a dispute between
the U.K. And Japan over the entry of Cable and Wireless Plc
&lt;CAWL.L> into the Japanese market.
    Toshiba said the introduction of the products indicated its
commitment to the U.K. Although the market was competitive, the
facsimile segement was showing excellent growth.
    In Japan, Cable is battling against proposals to merge a
consortium in which it has a 20 pct stake with another group
seeking telecommunications contracts.
    Initial proposals would have given Cable a three pct stake.
A later suggestion increased this to five pct, but Cable said
yesterday the idea was still unacceptable.  The dispute is
being treated by the U.K. Government as a test case of the
openness of the Japanese telecommunications market.
    Analysts said the coincidence of the timing of the
announcement by Toshiba with Cable's dispute could increase
pressure from the U.K. On Japan.
    However, they noted that it was not a major move. Toshiba
already has a sizeable presence in the U.K. While other
Japanese companies, such as NEC Corp &lt;NIPN.T> has a presence in
the key telephone -- telephone systems for businesses --
market.
    Cable shares were quoted seven pence lower in morning
trading at 367p.
 REUTER
&#3;