Australian opposition leader John Howard
sacked from the shadow cabinet Andrew Peacock, who is a former
foreign minister and Howard's predecessor, party officials
said.
    The officials said the move could lead to the collapse of
the opposition coalition between the Liberal and National
parties, which has been under severe strain in recent weeks.
    In a television interview yesterday prime minister Bob
Hawke said he might call an early election if strife within the
opposition undermined business confidence and hurt Australia's
economic recovery.
    "The opposition have not only destabilised themselves, they
have prostituted the political and economic debate by putting
up economic nostrums and stupidities that are destabilizing
business confidence," Hawke said.
    Howard relegated Peacock to the back benches after the
Melbourne Sun published an alleged telephone conversation
between Peacock and another opposition member in which Peacock
was critical of Howard's leadership. The paper said the call
was recorded by an unidentified man using an electronic radio
scanner. In a statement Howard said the conversation was
damaging to the party and implied disloyalty to him.
    Peacock told reporters he accepted Howard's right to "hire
and fire." He refused to answer questions about any leadership
challenge.
    Liberal party officials said the move against Peacock could
encourage his supporters to mount a challenge to Howard's
leadership. Peacock was ousted as opposition leader by Howard
in September 1985, after losing the 1984 general election to
Hawke.
    Queensland premier Sir Joh Bjelke-Petersen, a veteran
National Party member, recently campaigned against Howard's
leadership and urged his party to split from the coalition.
 REUTER
&#3;