Iran's revolutionary leader, Ayatollah
Ruhollah Khomeini, warned the nation's civilian and military
hierarchy against discord and dissent, Tehran radio said.
    A report, monitored by the British Broadcasting
Corporation, said he gave the warning in a speech to senior
government and military figures.
    He said Iranians should guard against internal dissent and
try to prevent it in a situation where foreign powers aimed to
"smash Islam...And destroy every one of us."
    His audience at a Tehran mosque included President Ali
Khamenei, Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Hojatoleslam
Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, influential Speaker of the Majlis
(Parliament) as well as military leaders, the radio said.
    It quoted Khomeini as saying: "Everybody around us is
pursuing the aim of destroying us from within. They say things
like such-and-such happened at such-and-such a place, who is
fighting whom...These things have an impact, and if one does
not beg God for preservation from such evils, one may fall into
a trap."
    Urging support for Parliament and the armed forces,
Khomeini said it was a "religious duty" to control negative
feelings about others and to behave in a friendly way.
    "We must support the Majlis. The Majlis must take sides with
the nation. We must support the government and it must serve
the nation," he said. "We must support the armed forces...They,
too, should support you.
    Khomeini said there should not be "one faction on one side
and another on the other...The armed forces must be on the side
of the Revolutionary Guards Corps and the Corps must support
the armed forces."
 REUTER
&#3;