International Business Machines Corp
said it introduced four new personal computers, including a top
of the line unit based on the powerful Intel Corp &lt;INTC> 80386
chip.
    The company said the new PC's are compatible with most
existing IBM PC applications.          
    The new computers, which mark the first major overhaul of
the IBM PC line since the company entered the business in 1981,
include a PC based on the Intel Corp &lt;INTC> 80386
microprocessor, making it the most powerful IBM PC to date.
    Also included is an Intel 8086 based system which IBM said
is up to two and a half times as fast as its IBM PC XT model.
    IBM also introduced two new versions of its PC AT system.
These use an Intel 80286 chip running at 50 pct faster than the
existing IBM PC AT.
    The new line of PC's, which IBM calls the Personal
System/2, uses 3.5 inch diskettes instead of the conventional
5.25 inch diskettes.
    The company said the smaller diskettes store from two to
four times more data than larger diskette, which typically
handle 360 kilobytes of data.
    IBM said the new PC AT's and the 80386-based PC use a new
IBM-designed 32-bit data bus. This carries data internally
within the PC.
    The company said the new bus offers processing power up to
two to three-and-a-half times the existing IBM PC AT.
    IBM said the new PC's can run a new operating system,
called IBM DOS Version 3.3, which is now available.
    The company also said it will offer a second operating
system, called IBM Operating System/2, developed jointly with
Microsoft Corp &lt;MSFT>. This will be available in stages,
beginning in the first quarter of 1988.
    IBM said Operating System/2 will for the first time give
IBM PC users the ability to access multiple applications and
very large programs and amounts of data.
    IBM said said its Personal System/2 Model 30, which is an
Intel 8-megahertz (MHz) 8086-based system, is now available at
a list price of 1,695 dlrs each with two diskette drives and
for 2,295 dlrs with one diskette and one 20-megabyte fixed disk
drive. The unit weighs 17 pounds.
    It said an 8087 math coprocessor that runs at the same
eight MHz rate as the 8086 is available.
    The company said the Personal System/2 Model 50, an Intel
10 MHz 80286-based desktop system, is now available at a cost
of 3,595 dlrs.
    IBM said said its Personal System/2 Model 60, which is also
an Intel 10 MHz 80286-based system, is a floor-standing system
available in two configurations. This system, which is
scheduled for availability in the second quarter, lists at
5,295 dlrs with a 44MB fixed disk drive and 6,295 dlrs on the
70MB fixed disk drive.
    The company said the Personal System/2 80 is the most
powerful member of the new family of PC's, using an Intel
80386-based mocroprocessor. The floor-standing machine will be
available in three configurations.
    IBM said one Model 80 configuration, scheduled for July
availability at a cost of 6,995 dlrs, runs at 16 MHz, contains
1MB of memory and features a 44MB fixed disk drive.
    A second configuration, also scheduled for July at 8,495
dlrs each, runs at 16 MHz and has 2MB of memory and a 70MB
fixed disk drive.
    The company said the third Model 80 is scheduled for the
fourth quarter and features IBM-designed one-megabit memory
technology. Expected to cost 10,995 dlrs, it runs at 20 MHz and
features 2MB of memory and a 115 MB fixed disk drive.
   
    IBM said its Personal System/2 incorporates enhanced
integrated graphics functions including significantly improved
text, expanded colors up to 256 out of a palette of more than
256,000, and sharper business graphics.
    The company said the Models 50, 60 and 80 Video Graphics
Array supports 640 x 480 x 16 colors in graphics mode and 720 x
400 x 16 colors in text mode. It will also support the new 320
x 200 x 256 color mode.
    With the addition of the new advanced graphics feature, IBM
said, 1024 x 768 addressability also can be obtained.
 Reuter
&#3;