EC agriculture ministers attacked
plans to penalise farmers immediately it becomes clear that
cereals output is above standard norms, EC sources said.
    They said this was the major criticism raised at a meeting
of ministers which discussed Commission proposals for curbing
spending on the cereals regime.
    The Commission wants powers to cut guaranteed prices or
raise the coresponsibility levy if output next harvest rises
above 155 mln tonnes.
    The sources said several ministers complained that changing
price levels in the middle of a season would severely damage
the financial security of farmers.
    But an EC Commission spokesman said farm commissioner Frans
Andriessen told them producers could not be guaranteed security
regardless of market circumstances.
    The sources said there was a general acceptance of the need
for some output ceilings. However, the French and Dutch
ministers called for a maximum output for a wider range of
cereal crops, rather than for cereals alone.
    The sources added West Germany wanted production ceilings
for individual countries with excess production being paid for
from national exchequers, but received no support for this
idea.
    British farm minister John MacGregor told reporters he
detected more support for his position against the penalties on
farmers being administered through higher coresponsibility
levies.
    He said he believes increasing the levies would do nothing
to increase EC cereals consumption whereas lower prices for
farmers could help in this direction.
 Reuter
&#3;