Rescue workers planned to evacuate wounded from
Palestinian refugee settlements in Beirut in a bid to relieve
the plight of the besieged community, Palestinian sources said.
    CAIRO - Egypt's opposition charged that yesterday's general
election was rigged, as early results showed President Hosni
Mubarak's ruling National Democratic Party (NDP) heading for a
big majority in Parliament.
    ZEEBRUGGE, Belgium - The stricken British car ferry Herald
of Free Enterprise, in which up to 140 bodies could still be
trapped, rose slowly from the North Sea in a mammoth salvage
operation off the coast.
    BUENOS AIRES - Pope John Paul, starting a one-week tour of
Argentina, told politicians they should always defend human
rights and that even in difficult situations no government had
a right to respond to violence with violence.
    MANILA - Communist rebels said they destroyed a vital
military communications station in the Northern Philippines and
an army spokesman said seven rebels were killed in a gun battle
in the southern region.
    BELFAST - Mourners clashed with police at an Irish
Republican Army funeral in Northern Ireland, prisoners rioted
in a high-security jail and guerrillas attacked security bases.
    FREETOWN, Sierra Leone - Sierra Leone's former
vice-president, Francis Minah, sacked two weeks after a failed
coup, has been detained on suspicion of involvement in the
plot, police sources said.
    BELGRADE - Over 2,000 Yugoslav firms with almost 600,000
workers are heading for bankruptcy, a trade union chief said.
Newspapers quoted union leaders as saying recent strikes would
be aggravated when the authorities force loss-making companies
to shut down.
    NEW DELHI - Hindus staged their biggest-ever rally in Delhi
to press their claim against India's Moslem minority for
control of a shrine disputed by the two faiths.
 REUTER
&#3;