U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz
forecast a golden future for the Philippines after talks on its
struggle for economic recovery and its fight against communist
insurgents.
    Speaking at a luncheon after an hour-long meeting with
President Corazon Aquino, Shultz delivered a powerful and
uncompromising endorsement of the Manila government.
    "There is a golden future out there for the Filipino people
to gain," he said. But he tempered his praise with a veiled hint
Washington's attitude might change if what it called the
current realism was seen to be diluted.
    "The political dreams of only 18 months ago are becoming the
democratic institutions of today," Shultz said. "Your economy is
developing an impressive head of steam, the insurgents are
learning that threats and intimidation will not stop the
Filipino people from voting for democracry."
    He said he had been struck by the widespread awareness of
the problems facing the Philippines.
    "No one I have met under-estimates the tasks which lie ahead
or the need to act upon them. That Filipino realism is an
essential element of American confidence in the Philippines," he
said.
    Shultz said the revolution which brought Aquino to power 18
months ago was still under way.
    He praised the efforts made by the armed forces in
combatting the communist insurgency, now in its 18th year,
adding that Aquino was also addressing the social and economic
problems fuelling the rebellion.
    Defence Minister Rafael Ileto, briefing reporters after a
separate meeting with Shultz, said the U.S. Was just as
confident as he was that the communists would be beaten.
    U.S. Officials made it clear before the start of today's
talks that they expected no dramatic developments.
 REUTER
&#3;