Peptide T, a minute chemical
structure that can be easily manufactured, effectively blocks
the attack of the deadly AIDS virus on human cells, researchers
claimed.
     The U.S. National Institute of Mental Health announced at
the third annual International Conference on Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome that Peptide T, first identified by
institute neuro-scientist Dr. Candace Pert, "potently blocks
entry of the AIDS virus into cells..."
    
    The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has quickly approved
clinical testing of the naturally-occurring brain chemical. The
decision  makes possible tests on AIDS victims.
      Dr. Frederick Goodwin, the institute's scientific
director, said in a joint interview with Pert, that "my gut
reaction is that we are onto something."
      He said that based on initial findings Peptide T may hold
more promise as a treatment for those already suffering from
AIDS, but could also have some value in the search for a
vaccine to prevent the spread of the disease.
   
    A research team has found that Peptide T is capable of
fully reversing brain cell damage caused by AIDS under a
variety of laboratory tests.
    Pert said that she sent doses of Peptide T last autumn to a
Swedish doctor who provided the chemical to four AIDS patients.
One died, but the three survivors showed some improvement, she
said.
   
    Goodwin said that three major drug firms, which he declined
to identify, are anxious to win permission to produce the
Peptide T substance that he said has potential for finding a
vaccine to safeguard against the deadly disease that has
threatened the lives of over a million people thus far.
    Pert said that the clinical testing in the United States
would involve at least a dozen AIDS patients in a controlled
environment, probably starting next month, which would
hopefully verify the chemical's usefulness.        
 Reuter
&#3;