South Korea's ruling party announced a
reform package which includes a recommendation for direct
presidential elections.
    There was no immediate reaction from President Chun Doo
Hwan but Democratic Justice Party (DJP) chairman Roh Tae-woo,
who unveiled the reforms, vowed to resign if they were
rejected.
    Roh, whose confirmation as government candidate to succeed
Chun sparked weeks of massive demonstrations around the
country, said he would withdraw his candidacy and quit his DJP
post if Chun failed to accept the package.
    "I have reached the conclusion that I cannot but choose the
direct presidential election system to overcome social
confusion and achieve national compromise," Roh said.
    There was no immediate indication of how soon Chun would
react to Roh's proposals or whether he was involved in their
formulation.
    The president, who took office in 1980 following a military
coup, is due to step down next February after elections which
had tentatively been set for December.
    Under Roh's package, Chun would remain president until his
successor was chosen by direct elections. At present, the
president is chosen through an electoral college system which
the opposition says is stacked in favour of the DJP.
    Among other major changes, the package offers a release of
most political prisoners, a guarantee of human rights and a
free press.
    Kim Young-sam, head of the opposition Reunification
Democratic Party, said, "I wholeheartedly welcome Chairman Roh's
announcement, though it was a belated measure."
    A Western diplomat told Reuters "It's a very substantial,
very courageous move."
    The second surprise in Roh's proposals was an amnesty for
leading dissident Kim Dae-jung, who has been banned from
politics because of a suspended sentence for sedition charges.
    The only opposition demand which is not met by Roh's
package is the RDP's insistence that Chun should step down
immediately.
 REUTER
&#3;