President Reagan ordered a high-level review
of U.S. Embassy security amid rising concern over a sex-and-spy
scandal in the Moscow embassy which he said had wide
implications. At the same time he said Soviet diplomats will
not be allowed to use their new embassy in Washington until the
U.S. Embassy in Moscow was made secure.
    BAHRAIN - Iranian forces have renewed their assault on
Iraqi lines defending the southern city of Basra and gained
what Baghdad described as "footholds" on Iraqi territory.
    BEIRUT - Syria intervened to halt months of fighting over
Palestinian refugee camps besieged by Amal militia.
    CAIRO - The ruling National Democratic Party of President
Hosni Mubarak took 75 pct of the seven mln votes cast in
Monday's general election, but incomplete official results
indicated some Socialist and Moslem Brotherhood gains.
    WASHINGTON - U.S. And NATO forces are monitoring what seems
to be the largest deployment of Soviet attack submarines in the
Western Atlantic since 1985, the Pentagon said.
    ROME - Partners in Italy's collapsing coalition government
headed for a showdown in a parliamentary vote of confidence.
    PARIS - France's conservative government won as expected a
parliamentary vote of confidence sought by Prime Minister
Jacques Chirac on his general policies.
    ROME - Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres discussed the
Middle East with Palestinian and Soviet officials at a
Socialist International committee meeting here.
    WASHINGTON - Jordanian Prime Minister Zaid al-Rifa'i said
he had made progress in talks with U.S. Secretary of State
George Shultz on the possibility of convening an international
conference on Middle East peace.
    BELFAST - A British soldier was shot and seriously hurt in
Northern Ireland and buses and lorries were hijacked and set on
fire after mourners clashed with police at an Irish Republican
Army funeral.
 REUTER
&#3;