No clear indication has emerged of the
victor in the race to succeed Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone
but political analysts said it was becoming more likely that
former foreign minister Shintaro Abe would be chosen.
    A decision on which of the three contenders would be picked
was expected late today or early on Tuesday, they said.
    Japanese political leaders held a flurry of closed-door
meetings today and the three candidates called on Nakasone, who
is due to step down late this month, to mediate to break the
deadlock.
    The other candidates are Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa
and former Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita.
    They are vying for the post of president of the ruling
Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), who is automatically prime
minister by virtue of the party's parliamentary majority.
    The new LDP president will be named formally at a party
convention on October 30 and elected prime minister by
parliament, probably on November 6, LDP sources said.
    Nakasone, 69, is due to retire on October 31 after five
years in the post, an exceptionally long term by Japanese
standards.
    Takeshita, who is head of the party's largest faction, had
steadfastly opposed the idea of seeking Nakasone's help, but he
told reporters: "It is possible Nakasone will be given carte
blanche (for selection of his successor)."
    One political analyst, who declined to be identified, said
Nakasone, despite a personal preference for Miyazawa, is likely
to choose Abe as the best candidate for steering Japan through
its international problems and maintaining party unity. Abe
also would also accept Nakasone's influence, he said. Analysts
said one of Nakasone's prime aims is to retain as much power as
possible following his retirement.
    Takeshita, the early favorite because of the size of his
faction, is viewed by many politicians and analysts as being
unsuitable for the post of prime minister because of his lack
of international experience.
    The analysts said Nakasone also was very unlikely to
support Takeshita's bid because of the differences in their
political styles.
 REUTER
&#3;