Oil prices have stabilized in world
markets and demand is likely to increase in the second half of
the year, Indonesia's Mines and Energy Minister Subroto said.
    He told a meeting of oil industry executives that oil
prices had stabilized at 18 dlrs a barrel -- the average fixed
price OPEC put into effect in February -- and supply and demand
have been in equilibrium since March.
    If OPEC does not increase overall output in the second half
of the year, prices will tend to increase, because non-OPEC
producers have not been able to produce more oil at current
prices, he said.
    But he declined to predict, when asked after the meeting,
whether OPEC would raise its production ceiling of 15.8 mln
barrels at its next meeting in June.
    He said in his speech that world oil production over the
last two months was estimated at 45.6 mln barrels a day, or two
mln barrels a day less than world oil demand.
    Oil production by industrialized countries, particularly
the U.S. And Canada, is expected to decrease this year, but
some of that slack will be taken up by increased production in
Cameroon, India and other developing countries, he said.
    This year is a battle between OPEC and non-OPEC oil
producers and consumers in the industrialized world for the
upper hand in world oil markets, Subroto said in an earlier
speech to management trainees at Pertamina Oil Company.
    "If OPEC emerges the winner, than it can gradually resume
its former role in world oil markets," he said.
    "But don't expect oil prices to return to the level of 28-30
dlrs a barrel, at least not in the next three or four years,"
Subroto said.
 REUTER
&#3;