Newly privatised financial services group
Cie Financiere de Paribas &lt;PARI.PA> said it will call an
extraordinary general meeting of shareholders for the
authorisation to issue various share and bond issues over
periods varying between one and five years.
    It said in the Official Bulletin it would seek permission
to increase capital, currently 2.33 billion francs, by up to
two billion francs worth of new ordinary shares.
    It also plans to ask for authorisation to issue up to one
billion francs nominal of shares with share warrants and one
billion francs nominal of warrants giving the right to
subscribe to ordinary shares.
    Paribas will also seek authorisation to issue bonds
convertible at any moment into ordinary shares which would
boost capital by a maximum of five billion francs, and up to
ten billion francs nominal of bonds redeemable into ordinary
shares.
    It will also ask for authorisation to issue a maximum of
ten billion francs nominal of bonds with share warrants, with a
one billion franc nominal ceiling on shares that could be
obtained through the exercise of the warrants.
    The group will also ask for authorisation to issue in any
currency bonds and warrants for a maximum of ten billion francs
and to underwrite the issue of bonds and shares in any currency
for a maximum of ten billion francs.
    Finally it will ask for authorisation to issue certificates
of deposit for a maximum of ten billion francs and to
underwrite a similar maximum amount of certificates of deposit
in all currencies.
    A spokesman said the group had no immediate issue plans.
 Reuter
&#3;