The National Weather Service said a
storm, centered off the east of Massachusetts early this
morning, continued to produce rain across New England, and as
far west as Michigan, Ohio and west Virginia. Some areas in the
northeastern U.S. have yet to see the sun this month.
    A flood warning remains in effect for small rivers in
southern New Hampshire and extreme southwestern Maine. A flood
warning is also in effect for interior Rhode Island, and
central and northeastern Massachusetts.
    A flood watch covers much of the rest of Massachusetts,
eastern interior Connecticut and coastal Rhode Island, along
with the southern half of Vermont, the White mountains of New
Hampshire and much of southern Maine.
    The storm off the Atlantic Coast has been very slow to move
out to sea, and rain is likely to continue in northern New
England into Wednesday.
    Cool and wet weather has also prevailed in the lower Rio
Grande Valley of Texas so far this month.
    A few light rainshowers were over the lower Rio Grande
Valley early this morning. Rainshowers were also widely
scattered over the middle Mississippi Valley.
    A cold front was bringing cloudy skies and scattered
rainshowers to the northwestern U.S.
    Skies remained clear in the north central U.S. Unseasonably
warm temperatures prevailed across the north central states
Monday afternoon. High temperatures in northern Minnesota were
warmer than those in the lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas.
    Temperatures were in the 30s F early this morning in the
central and southern Rockies, and the southern and central high
Plains.
    Temperatures were still in the 60s in south Florida,
southern Arizona and southern California.
 Reuter
&#3;