Kansai Electric Power Co Inc is issuing a 60
billion yen eurobond due April 30, 1994 paying a 4-5/8 pct
coupon and priced at 101 pct, lead manager Nomura International
Ltd said.
    LONDON - Sharp Corp is issuing a 200 mln dlr equity warrant
eurobond due April 27, 1992 paying two pct and priced at par,
lead manager Nomura International Ltd said.
    LONDON - Brierley Investments Overseas NV is issuing a 100
mln dlr eurobond due April 30, 1992 paying 8-1/4 pct and priced
at par, lead manager Banque Paribas Capital Markets said.
    LONDON - Showa Aluminium Corp is issuing a 100 mln dlr
equity warrant eurobond due April 23, 1992 paying an indicated
coupon of 2-1/8 pct and priced at par, lead manager Nomura
International Ltd said.
    LONDON - Nippon Shokubai Kagaku Kogyo is issuing an 80 mln
dlr equity warrant eurobond due April 30, 1992 paying an
indicated coupon of 2-1/8 pct and priced at par, lead manager
Nomura International Ltd said.
    PARIS - Caisse Centrale des Autoroutes is issuing a 120 mln
ECU 7-3/8 pct eurobond due May 15, 1995 at 101-3/4 pct, lead
manager Credit Lyonnais said.
    LONDON - Postipankki is issuing a 20 billion yen eurobond
due May 11, 1992 paying 4-1/2 pct and priced at 102-1/8 pct,
lead manager Nikko Securities Co (Europe) Ltd said.
    LONDON - Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said it is
effectively repackaging 137 mln dlrs of the U.K's four billion
dlr floating rate note issued last year into a five year fixed
rate yen note with a five pct coupon.
    LONDON - A unit of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro is issuing a
15 billion yen eurobond due May 12, 1992 paying 4-1/2 pct and
priced at 101-1/2 pct, market sources said. The joint
bookrunners are Tokai International and Daiwa Europe Ltd.
 REUTER
&#3;