West German President Richard von
Weizsaecker said both debtor and creditor nations share
responsibility for the Third World's foreign debt crisis.
    Weizsaecker, in a speech on the first day of an official
visit to Argentina, said: "Debtor and creditor countries have
created this situation jointly. They also share responsibility
for finding lasting solutions."
    Local officials have payed great importance to
Weizsaecker's visit because they consider him a key backer of
more flexible repayment terms for Argentina's 51 billion dlr
foreign debt, Latin America's third largest.
    Weizsaecker, speaking at a reception held for him by
President Raul Alfonsin at Buenos Aires' City Council hall,
also said no one could overlook the enormity of the obstacle
posed by the foreign debt to countries like Argentina.
    "Democracy in Latin America must not be endangered because
of misery or new injustices," he said.
    Argentine officials said they might halt debt payments last
month if creditor banks did not agree to a new 2.15 billion dlr
loan. An Argentine mission is now in the U.S. For talks with 11
banks, seeking to win an easing of repayment terms and secure
the loan.
    Weizsaecker said Argentina has had difficulties with the
European Community over trade barriers and subsidies for grain
exports.
    "We are making efforts to eliminate them with the help of
balanced interest from all parties," he said.
    Argentina has said the barriers and subsidies cut unfairly
into the country's traditional markets for its grain exports.
    Weizsaecker arrived for a four-day visit, opening a Latin
American tour which includes Bolivia and Guatemala. He held
brief talks on Sunday with Brazilian President Jose Sarney
during a stopover in Brasilia.
 REUTER
&#3;