Malaysian and Indonesian palm oil production is
likely to drop sharply this year because of lower yields, the
Hamburg-based newsletter Oil World said.(XYGP 1330)
    NEW YORK - Comex silver futures soared 15 to 18 cents on
opening and then retreated slightly as followthrough buying
slowed. May was up 12.5 cents at 6.705 dlrs from a high of 6.75
dlrs. July was up 13.1 at 6.785 dlrs from 6.84 dlrs. (MMSU
1404) In LONDON, LME silver ended the morning with three months
large trading at a new five month high of 420 pence per troy
ounce, versus yesterday's kerb close 415/418 pence.(MMSL 1327)
    LONDON - Cargill U.K. Ltd said its oilseed processing plant
in Seaforth, northwest England, will resume operations tomorrow
morning following settlement of a labour dispute which has
paralysed production there since December 19. (XYHY 1405)
    SAO PAULO - A Brazilian seamen's strike, which began on
February 27 and has been tapering off for weeks, has now ended,
a seamen's spokesman said.(XYGH 1305)
    WASHINGTON - Kuwait has asked at least four countries,
including the U.S., Soviet Union, Britain and China, for
temporary use of their flags or tankers to protect Kuwaiti oil
shipments in the Persian Gulf, U.S. Officials said. (XYJV 1535)
    BRUSSELS - The European Commission has not taken a decision
on applications from the British government for the release of
200,000 tonnes of intervention feed wheat onto the British
market in May and June, Commission sources said. (XYJN 1519)
    CHICAGO - CBT wheat futures opened firmer to again set new
contract highs in new crop, then back off those highs to hold
gains of 1-1/4 cents per bushel in May, with new crop July
unchanged in light early dealings.(WHCB)
    MADRID - Spain is to sign an barley order with Saudi Arabia
for April/May delivery, trade sources said. They gave no
further details, but said it would be a "major" order.(XYGX 1333)
    LONDON - Trading volume on the London Commodity Exchange
held steady overall in March, according to figures issued by
the International Commodities Clearing House. Total volume was
238,287 lots against 235,665 in March 1986 and 233,403 in
February 1987. (XYKM 1559)
 REUTER
&#3;