The Food and Drug Administration said
stepped up testing of condoms by the agency has led to a three
recalls by U.S. manufacturers and the detention of foreign-made
condoms at U.S. borders.
    The FDA said industry standards require that roughly no
more than four out of 1,000 condoms leak. Condoms are tested by
pouring 10 ounces of water in each and looking for leakage.
    The FDA said Schmid Laboratories of Little Falls, N.J., has
voluntarily recalled one lot of Sheik Fetherlite condoms, which
was distributed to 22 accounts through the United States.
   
    The agency said Schmid reported that almost all of the
condoms were still in transit or at wholesalers at the time of
the recall and are being recovered.
    National Sanitary Labs of Lincolnwood, Ill, voluntarily
recalled a lot of Protex Contracept Plus brand latex condoms
which were distributed to a wholesaler in California and two
retailers in Indiana and Michigan, the FDA said.
    The FDA said National estimates that none of the suspect
lot remains on the market. The FDA also said National recalled
two more lots of condoms following additional FDA tests.
    The FDA also said Circle Rubber Corp of Newark, N.J., is
voluntarily recalling Saxon and L'appel condoms after being
informed of FDA test results. The FDA said the condoms were
distributed in North Carolina and Illinois.
    The FDA urged condom makers on April 7 to inform consumers
about how condoms should be used to increase protection against
sexually transmitted diseases, including AIDS. Since April, the
FDA said it had detained 15 shipments of condoms made by firms
in Korea and four shipments of condoms from Malaysia.
 Reuter
&#3;