The U.S. Mint received 17 offers
from seven firms at prices ranging from 0.66845-0.6840 dlrs per
lb for payment by standard check and 0.66695-0.68 dlrs per lb
for wire transfer payment in a review of offers on 3,701,000
lbs of electrolytic copper it is seeking to purchase.
    Philipp Brothers, N.Y., led with the lowest offers of
0.66695 for wire transfer payment and 0.66845 dlrs per lb to be
paid by check, followed by Cerro Sales Corp, N.Y., with 0.6684
dlrs per lb on one mln lbs for wire payment, and 0.6713 dlrs
per lb on one mln lbs for standard payment.
    Firms, in submitting offers, elect to be paid by standard
check or wire transfer, with awards based on whichever of the
two methods is more cost advantageous at that time.
    Cerro Sales also offered prices for wire payment of 0.6689
dlrs per lb on one mln lbs and 0.6693 dlrs per lb on 1,701,000
lbs. Cerro's standard payment offers included 0.6719 dlrs per
lb on one mln lbs and 0.6723 dlrs per lb on 1,701,000 lbs.
    Cargill Metals, Minneapolis, offered 0.67025 dlrs per lb
for wire payment and 0.67275 dlrs per lb for standard payment,
while Elders Raw Materials, Darien, Ct., offered 0.6718 dlrs
per lb for wire payment and 0.6735 dlrs per lb for standard
payment on increments of 950,000 lbs each.
    Other offers for wire transfer payment include 0.6759 dlrs
per lb on 380,000 lbs, submitted by Deak International, N.Y.,
0.6789 dlrs per lb on the entire quantity by Diversified Metals
Corp, St. Louis, and 0.68 dlrs per lb by Gerald Metals,
Stamford, Ct.
    Other standard payment offers include 0.6819 dlrs per lb on
950,000 lbs by Diversified Metals, and 0.6840 dlrs per lb on
the entire quantity by Gerald Metals.
    The Mint said the copper is for delivery the week of May 11
to Olin Corp, East Alton, Ill.
    The offers have a minimum acceptance period of three
calendar days, it said.
 Reuter
&#3;