The European Community (EC) has failed
to agree on a high-technology research program because of
opposition from Britain and West Germany, diplomats said.
    But Belgian Research Minister Guy Verhofstadt told
reporters the two had been given just over a week to end their
opposition or risk plunging EC research into a crisis.
    The so-called "Framework Program" proposed by the EC's
Executive Commission was designed to boost research in areas
such as computers, biotechnology and telecommunications and
combat U.S. And Japanese domination in these fields.
    The five-year program was due to start at the beginning of
this year, but was delayed by calls from Britain, France and
West Germany for cuts in the proposed budget of 7.7 billion
European Currency Units (Ecus), diplomats said.
    The EC Commission had already cut the budget from 10.5
billion Ecus, but under EC law the program needs the approval
of all member states before it can be launched.
    France has withdrawn its objections and backed a new
compromise budget proposed by Verhofstadt to trim spending.
    But Britain is continuing its demands for further, sharp
cuts in the budget.
    West Germany, which yesterday appeared to be ready to
accept the compromise, was also holding back.
    Verhofstadt, who chaired the lengthy meeting, said he had
given the two states until April 3 to withdraw their
opposition.
    But if one or both failed to do so, the EC would be left
without a research program, leaving no money for schemes such
as the EC's Esprit information technology drive.
    "If that happened ... There would be a grave crisis in
Europe's scientific and research policy," Verhofstadt said,
adding it could mean research teams being disbanded.
    Diplomats said West Germany was close to agreeing to the
compromise, which would limit new spending to 5.4 billion Ecus
by allowing for cash already set aside for future projects.
    The plan would also set aside at least 16 pct of the 5.4
billion Ecus for spending after the end of the five-year
program, they said. But Britain still maintained the
allocations were much too high.
    Britain's Research Minister Geoffrey Pattie faced a tough
fight to convince his government colleagues they should accept
an increase in spending beyond the 4.2 billion Ecu level so far
demanded by Britain, one diplomat added.
 REUTER
&#3;