Digital Equipment said it is
taking several initiatives designed to make it easier and more
cost effecive for customers to purchase and use its products
and services.
    The company also said it is introducing three new mid-range
VAX systems.
    Digital stated the moves "further strengthened its
leadership position in the computer industry."
    The company said it also adjusted prices acrossall product
lines to more accurately reflect performance and customer value.
    Digital said the new products -- the VAX 8250, VAX 8350 and
VZX 8530 systems -- replace earlier models and provide up to 40
pct increased performance.
    It said the new "systems reflect Digital's ability to
sustain its present leadership in integrated, networked
systems."
    Effective today, the company said, it is adopting new
business practices to remain responsive to the needs of
customers and the rapidly changing marketplace, specifically
the trend towards distributed, networked operations.
    Digital said it is instituting a discount structure based
on total enterprise purchase of hardware and software.
Purchases for resale are included within this simplified
Discount structure.
    The company said it now has a one-year warranty on all
hardware, including VAX and PDP systems, all options and
peripherals. In addition, customers can select to extend their
hardware warranties up to three years at the time of purchase.
    Digital said its new software licensing policy simplifies
the transfer of software within a company and includes
rellicensing procedures for used equipment.
    Digital said it has instituted uniform quantity pricing on
all product list prices with increases to reflect full system
value on high functionality systems and software.
    Without providing any details, it also said the are price
reductions of up to 50 pct on selected memories and disks.
    "Based on the analysis of product mix, price adjustments
will generally result in minimal net impact in costs in a
typical user enterprise," it added.
 Reuter
&#3;