Africa's efforts to revive its
economy are not being matched by international help, two of the
continent's heads of state said at the opening of a conference.
    Presidents Ibrahim Babangida of Nigeria and Denis Sassou-
Nguesso of Congo urged Africa's development partners to act
over the continent's debt, which now totals 175 billion dlrs,
at a meeting organised by the Economic Commission for Africa
(ECA).
    Their view was backed by Monique Landry, Canada's Minister
for External Relations. "Whether we look at aid or debt or
trade, the rich countries have not as yet lived up to their
part of last year's economic recovery pact."
    Babangida said it was unrealistic to expect any country to
spend more than 30 pct of its earnings on debt servicing
particularly as prices for the continent's commodities were so
unstable.
    Sassou Nguesso, current Chairman of the Organisation of
African Unity, accused international aid donors of failing to
provide the vigorous effort they promised a year ago.
    The conference, attended by African ministers, economists
and representatives from major donors, will review progress
since both sides agreed at the U.N. Last year to revive the
African economy over five years.
    The response from the international community has been
negative and projections of improved growth rates for Africa
already look far too optimistic, ECA Executive Secretary
Adebayo Adedeji told the conference.
    Both Babangida and Sassou Nguesso called for the debts of
Africa's poorest countries to be written off and for repayment
and grace terms to be eased.
    They won a degree of support from Landry, "Even private
bankers are willing to talk about the need for longer term
solutions to Africa's debt."
 REUTER
&#3;