Japan's policy of self-sufficiency in
rice is an example of extreme protectionism, visiting U.S.
Agriculture secretary Richard Lyng told a press conference.
    He told the National Press Club of Japan that because Japan
had a large export balance, not just with the U.S. But with
other countries, it was inconsistent for it to be 100 pct
self-sufficient in one product.
    Speaking after farm trade talks with Japan agriculture
minister Mutsuki Kato, Lyng said the U.S. Had not asked for
total liberalisation of the rice market in Japan.
    Lyng urged Japan to allow some imports of rice.
    "We want to have some access in the rice market," he said.
    He said both he and trade representative Clayton Yeutter
were disappointed at the outcome of talks with Japan. He told
reporters Japan had rejected the U.S. Proposal to open
negotiations on rice at the new round of trade talks at the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
    Lyng said he suggested instead bilateral talks with Japan
on rice.
    Kato has said Japan cannot negotiate on its policy of rice
self-sufficiency.
    Asked what the next U.S. Step would be on the rice issue,
Lyng said he did not know what Yeutter or the U.S. Rice
industry would do.
    Yeutter has promised to consider again in July or August
this year a complaint against Japan's rice import ban by the
U.S. Rice Millers Association if no breakthrough is made in the
meantime.
    U.S. Rice industry officials have indicated they would
consider filing another complaint against the Japan rice import
ban.
 REUTER
&#3;