&lt;Advanced Voice Technologies Inc> said
it has filed a suit against Reynolds and Reynolds Co &lt;REYNA>,
charging the company with pirating a computer-based voice
messaging system for auto dealer service departments (CASI),
using confidential information it received while test marketing
the system for Advanced Voice.
    Advanced Voice said the suit also charges that Reynolds and
Reynolds advised present and potential customers of Advanced
Voice not to use or buy its CASI system in an attempt to drive
the Nashville, Tenn.-based company out of interstate sales to
auto dealerships.
    The lawsuit, filed in a Detroit U.S. District Court, seeks
preliminary and permanent injunctions to stop Reynolds and
Reynolds from using or disclosing information it gained from
Advanced Voice, as well as punitive and compensatory damages,
Advnaced Voice said.
    The company also said in its suit it had signed a
confidentiality agreement with Reynolds and Reynolds before
giving it business and technical information about the CASI
system. Afterwards, Reynolds and Reynolds told Advanced Voice
it would not distribute the CASI system, but would develop its
own instead, Advanced Voice said.
    "We held virtually nothing back from Reynolds and Reynolds
because of our confidential relationship and the reputation of
the company," Michael Frank, president of Advanced Voice, said.
"They went from no backround and experience in telecommuncation
equipment utilizing voice messaging technology, to their own
system a year later, just two months after severing ties with
us."
 Reuter
&#3;