Wang Laboratories Inc announced four
additions to its VS line of minicomputers which it said will
offer double the capacity of the older models they replace.
    Company officials told a news conference that Wang will
also announce new entry level and high end computers within the
next 12 months and a family of powerful work stations by the
end of this year.
    Ian Diery, Wang's senior vice president of U.S. operations,
said the new models are lower priced than comparable computers
from Digital Equipment Corp &lt;DEC>, the world's largest maker of
minicomputers.
   
    Minicomputers are medium sized machines usually used within
a department or work group of a larger company and typically
cost between 10,000 and 500,000 dlrs.
    The VS 5E will replace Wang's entry level VS 5. Priced at
13,000 dlrs, it can support up to 16 users, double the eight
supported by the five and has three times the disc capacity of
the older system.
    The VS 6E can support up to 32 users, double the capacity
of the model six it replaces, and has three times the storage
capacity of the older model. The 6E is priced at 22,000 dlrs.
   
    The VS 75E, which replaces the 65, can support 64 users, 60
pct more than the older model and has twice the main memory
capacity. It is priced at 44,000 dlrs.
    The new VS 7010, which acts as an entry level system for
Wang's more powerful 7000 family of minicomputers, can support
between 30 and 55 users. It is priced at 75,000 dlrs.
    All the new systems are now available, Diery said.
    Bob Ano, Wang's senior vice president of corporate
marketing, said that before the end of the company's fiscal
year on June 30 it will introduce an entry level computer that
will have four times the power of the 5E introduced today.
   
    Within the next 12 to 18 months, he said, Wang will
announce a more powerful high-end machine that will offer
double the price/performance of its 7000 series.
    Ano said the new family of work stations planned for this
year will have a 32-bit semiconductor and be able to support
the industry standard MS-DOS and UNIX operating systems.
 Reuter
&#3;