&lt;Ciba-Geigy Ltd> announced the
formation of its Ciba Vision Group, becoming the first group
within the corporate structure to carry the Ciba name.
    The Swiss-based pharmaceutical giant said the new group,
which formerly operated under its U.S. pharmaceutical division,
represents the first time Ciba has developed an operating group
from within its corporate structure.
    It said other operating groups have been established
through acquisitions.
    Ciba's Vision Group will be headed by James MacDonald,
president and chief operating officer.
    MacDonald said the group will be based outside of
Frankfurt, W. Germany, near its research and development
facility.
    Sales from the group in 1986 were approximately 160 mln
dlrs, the company said.
    "The designation of Ciba Vision as an independent operating
group underscores Ciba-Geigy's anticipation of continued
growth," MacDonald told a group of reporters. 
    Silvano Ghirardi, head of the group's international
marketing operations, said he expects Ciba Vision to become
possibly the second leading vision care products company in the
industry by the end of the year. Bausch and Lomb &lt;BOL>, he
said, was the industry leader.
    "Right now we are trying to solidify the group and bring it
together under one group," Ghirardi said.
    Ghiirardi told Reuters the group considered Japan one of
the prime markets in which it intends to expand.
    MacDonald told reporters the group planned to expand
through acquisition and internal growth.
    He said Ciba Vision's sales have grown an average of more
than 200 pct a year since 1981, the year after the group was
formed.
 Reuter
&#3;