The Federal Trade Commission charged
Kraft Inc with false and misleading advertising by overstating
the calcuim content of its Kraft Singles cheese product.
    In an administrative complaint, the FTC charged the
Glenview, Ill., food and consumer products company with
claiming that a slice of Kraft Singles American Pasteurized
Process Cheese Food (Kraft Singles) contains the same amount of
calcium as five ounces of milk, when it does not.
    The company also falsely advertised that Kraft Singles
contained more calcium than do most imitation cheese slices,
the FTC charged.
    The FTC complaint also charged that Kraft said it could
substantiate these claims when, in fact, it could not.
    "Nutritional information is important to consumers, but it
can be difficult for them to verify." FTC Bureau of Consumer
Protection Director William MacLeod said in a statement. "That
is why we seek to maintain the accuracy of nutritional claims."
    The FTC, which voted 4-1 in favor of issuing the complaint,
generally takes such action when it has reason to believe that
the law has been or is being violated and where it apears to
the commission that a proceeding is in the public interest.
    The filing of an administrative complaint marks the
beginning of a proceeding that often takes up to a year in
which the allegations will be ruled upon after a formal
hearing.
    If the commission's allegations are upheld, Kraft could be
prohibited from misrepresenting the calcium or other nutrient
content of its cheese-type products, including those made in
comparative ads.
    The company could also be prohibited from making such
claims without having competent and reliable scientific
evidence.
 Reuter
&#3;