European Community (EC) agriculture
ministers resume discussions in Luxembourg tomorrow on tough
1987/88 farm price proposals from the bloc"s executive
Commission with only thin hopes of reaching a quick agreement.
    Their current chairman, Belgium"s Paul de Keersmaeker,
promised at the end of the group"s last meeting that if
agreement appeared in sight this week, he would keep his
colleagues at the negotiating table for long days and nights.
    But one diplomat told journalists: "I don"t think you need to
worry about that. We are a long way from the crunch yet."
    The commission has tabled a series of proposals which farm
experts say would together amount to the most swingeing attack
on overspending on the bloc"s Common Agricultural Policy, and
the biggest blow to farmers" incomes, in years.
    As well as cuts in common farm prices of 2.5 pct in the key
cereals sector, quality standards for farm goods sold into EC
surplus stores would be raised and the period of the year when
such sales were allowed restricted.
    The experts say prices received by farmers would be cut by
over 10 pct for many crops if such measures were agreed.
    The effects, however, would be mitigated by Commission
proposals unveiled on April 14 for generous cash grants to
farmers worst hit by the struggle to curb EC food surpluses.
    When ministers met on March 30 and 31 in Brussels for
initial discussions on the farm price package, several, notably
France"s Francois Guillaume and West Germany"s Ignaz Kiechle,
said the proposals were unacceptably tough.
    Only the Dutch and British delegations gave general support
to the Commission line that such drastic measures were
necessary to curb surplus food production in the EC and to
reduce the massive cost of the CAP.
    But even then, the British are among several delegations
which oppose the Commission"s controversial plan to raise two
billion European Currency Units through a tax on imported and
EC-produced oilseeds and fats.
    In order to seek common ground, de Keersmaeker plans to
spend the whole of tomorrow in bilateral meetings with each of
his colleagues in turn.
    Diplomats said although the ministers will meet together on
Tuesday, de Keersmaeker is likely to conclude that further
talks at the level of officials are necessary and that the hard
bargaining will have to wait until May.
 REUTER
&#3;