Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson
Funaro shrugged off demands by a group of Brazilian governors
that he resign.
    "At this moment I am discussing something much more serious
for Brazil and it's absolutely indispensible in a negotiation
like this one that I dedicate myself entirely to the
discussions," Funaro told reporters.
    Funaro, who spoke today to the International Monetary
Fund's interim committee, was referring to talks he began
Tuesday with creditor banks in New York in which unveiled
Brazil's economic targets and financial needs.
    The governor of Sao Paulo state Orestes Quersia and other
governors last night called on Brazilian President Jose Sarney
to assume direct control of the debt negotiations.
    Asked if the governors' demands for his resignation would
affect negotiations, Funaro said: "We are building a new
refinancing position and that is what we are doing now. The
rest is secondary."
    He added that Brazil's economic program clearly
demonstrates the intention to renegotiate the countries
international financial committments, and added: "The domestic
problems are our business."
    Funaro said discussions on Brazil's refinancing proposals
were well under way with private creditor banks and added World
Bank President Barber Conable had also accepted the proposals
as "a good plan" at a meeting they had last night.
    But Conable, who was also present at today's IMF interim
committee meeting told reporters that the World Bank wanted
further clarifications on Brazil's economic programs.
    "We wish further clarification about the program with
respect to adjustment lending," Conable said.
    He added that a World Bank mission would travel to Brazil
early next week to explore the state of Brazil's new economic
measures.
 Reuter
&#3;