Grain and oilseed complex export
business reported since yesterday by government agencies and
private exporters -
    Japanese crushers bought a total of 5,000 tonnes of
Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for late
May/early June shipment...Results still awaited on a tender by
Jordan for 225,000 tonnes of U.S. hard and soft wheats for
various April/Nov shipments under the U.S. Department of
Agriculture's (USDA) export enhancement program...
    (Continued) - Spain will shortly sign with Saudi Arabia an
order for an undisclosed amount of barley for April/May
delivery...Sesostris, the Spanish subsidiary of the
international grain trader Dreyfus, sold 18,000 tonnes of
barley to Greece for April 14/30 delivery via Mediterranean
ports.
    Tenders - nil
    Market talk and comment - Pakistan was rumored to have
rejected offers at its tender today for an additional 6,000
tonnes of Malaysian PBD palm oil...
    Market talk and comment (continued) - Thailand exported
75,160 tonnes of rice in the week ended March 31, down from
88,785 tonnes the previous week, plus concluded advance weekly
sales for 22,086 tonnes against 44,483 tonnes the previous
week...Pakistan has offered 50,000 tonnes of rice as emergency
aid in Bangladesh's current food crisis, Bangladesh commerce
ministry officials told reporters...Honduras will tender April
13 under PL-480 for U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels to deliver
approximately 52,500 tonnes of various wheats in bulk with
laydays from June 20 through September 25, an agent for
Honduras said...
    Market talk and comment (continued) -  The Commodity Credit
Corp reallocated 5.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously
earmarked for sales of U.S wheat to cover sales of vegetable
oil to Bangladesh, plus authorized 2.0 mln dlrs in credit
guarantees to cover sales of seeds to Algeria and transferred
21.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously
earmarked for sales of U.S. corn and 5.0 mln dlrs for oilseeds
to increase available coverage on sales of U.S. poultry meat to
Iraq, the USDA said...Japan was rumored to be tendering
tomorrow, April 8, for an undisclosed amount of optional origin
wheat for June shipment...
    Market talk and comment (continued) - Tunisia was rumored
to have tendered for 100,000 tonnes of optional origin soft
wheat for May/June shipments...Egypt was rumored to be
tendering tomorrow for 125,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat flour for
May/June shipment using PL-480 allocated funds...Morocco was
rumored to be tendering Thursday, April 9, for 120,000 to
210,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat for May/June shipment using PL-480
funds...Egypt was rumored to have withdrawn its tender for
200,000 tonnes of U.S. soft wheat for May/June shipment
...North Yemen was rumored to have taken 75,000 tonnes of
Australian wheat for April/May shipment and rejected U.S....
    Market talk and comment (continued) - Algeria was rumored
to be tendering overnight for optional origin corn...Taiwan was
rumored to be tendering overnight for 35,000 tonnes of U.S.
sorghum...The Philippines were rumored to have rejected offers
at a tender for 450,000 tonnes of spring wheat.
 Reuter
&#3;