The dollar's tumble to a record low of
144.70 yen in Tokyo today motivated some major Japanese
investors to lighten their U.S. Bond inventory further and is
expected to spur diversification into investment assets
including foreign and domestic shares, dealers said.
    The key U.S. 7-1/2 pct Treasury bond due 2016 fell to a low
of 96.08-12 in early Tokyo trade against the 98.05-06 New York
finish, then recovered to 96.20-22.
    Some trust bank pension fund acccounts and investment
trusts were seen selling several hundred million dollars on the
foreign exchange market here today, accentuating the unit's
tumble, securities house dealers said.
    They seem undecided on what to do with the fresh yen cash
positions resulting from their dollar sales today, and are
sidelined until the currency market stabilises and the interest
rates outlook clarifies, a Nikko Securities Co Ltd currency
trader said.
    The dollar's plunge and low yields on U.S. Bonds will
further promote diversification into other foreign investments,
as well as call back funds into the domestic bond and stock
markets from overseas bond markets, securities bond managers
said.
    They said major Japanese investors in the past two years
are estimated to have held 50 to 80 pct of their foreign
portfolios in U.S. Bonds but many have lightened their U.S.
Bond inventory to as low as 40 pct.
REUTER...
&#3;